Experience in Installing, upgrading, and configuring Red Hat Linux 6x & 7x, SLES servers 12x & 15x.

Experience in Kernel patching on Linux systems.

Knowledge on configuring the Disk mirroring, striping through the RAID.

Knowledge of NIC Bonding.

Remote system administration using tools like SSH, Telnet.

Network File system Administration for Servers and Clients, Importing Exporting File systems, Troubleshooting NFS.

Creating and Managing File Systems, Building & Maintaining Storage Volumes using Logical Volume Manager (LVM), and Extending, Reducing, and Creating LVM snapshots.

Creating users and groups, managing user accounts.

Install the packages with YUM & RPM and zypper.

Setting up ACLs for the folders on RHEL 6.x/7.x servers as per the request.

Monitor the servers for proactive and reactive management. Monitoring system performance using top, iostat, vmstat, netstat, etc, and troubleshooting the daily CPU and Disk related issues.

Knowledge of Linux Based Networking, Web server, Ftp server, DNS server, Samba Server, DHCP server, NFS server.

Automating jobs using croon and a job.

Building the Local & centralized Repositories for installing required Packages in the Remote server.

Securing and managing network with firewall & IP-tables, creating rules to filter traffic.

Perform file system management tasks

Perform user and Filesystem management

Performing monthly patching including security patches

Assist user on an on-call basis

Identify and drive continual improvement program in UNIX environment and improve the service efficiency

Assist application development teams with software that is to be deployed on a UNIX server.

Worked on setting up SSH SCP, SFTP connectivity between UNIX hosts

Installing and upgrading UNIX system software on company servers and computers.

Creating UNIX file systems.

Setting up and maintaining UNIX user accounts and access management systems.

Implementing network and computer system policies.

Detecting and troubleshooting software and hardware issues.

Responding to user requests and software errors.

Monitoring the performance of the system and server.

Creating backup and recovery policies.

Setting up and monitoring security policies. 